Add Azure Exporter documentation (#464)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/azure/installation.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Installation

The azure exporter is deployed using Terraform on Azure ContainerApp.
It uses our Terraform Ocean Integration Factory [module](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/port-labs/integration-factory/ocean/latest) to deploy the exporter.

:::tip
Multiple ways to deploy the Azure exporter could be found in the Azure Integration example [README](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/port-labs/integration-factory/ocean/latest/examples/azure_container_app_azure_integration)
:::

## Azure Infrastructure Used by the Azure Exporter

The Azure exporter uses the following Azure infrastructure:

- Azure ContainerApp

> - Azure Event Grid (Used for real-time data sync to Port)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Azure Event Grid (Used for real-time data sync to Port):
```

>   - Azure Event Grid System Topic of type `Microsoft.Resources.Subscriptions`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Azure Event Grid System Topic of type `Microsoft.Resources.Subscriptions`;
```

  - Azure Event Grid Subscription

:::caution

> Due to a limitation in Azure **only one** Event Grid System Topic of type `Microsoft.Resources.Subscriptions` can be created per subscription, so if you already have one you'll need to pass it to the integration using `event_grid_system_topic_name=<your-event-grid-system-topic-name>`, otherwise the deployment of the integration will fail due to not being able to create a new one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to a limitation in Azure **only one** Event Grid system topic of type `Microsoft.Resources.Subscriptions` can be created per subscription, so if you already have one you'll need to pass it to the integration using `event_grid_system_topic_name=<your-event-grid-system-topic-name>`.

In case a system topic already exists and is not provided to the deployment of the integration, the integration will due to not being able to create a new one.
```

:::

## Prerequisites

- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) >= 0.15.0
- [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) >= 2.26.0

## Installation

1. Login to [Port](https://app.getport.io) and browse to the [builder page](https://app.getport.io/dev-portal)
2. Open the ingest modal by expanding one of the blueprints and clicking the ingest button on the blueprints.

   ![Dev Portal Builder Ingest Button](../../../../static/img/integrations/azure-exporter/DevPortalBuilderIngestButton.png)

3. Click on the Azure Exporter option under the Cloud Providers section:

   ![Dev Portal Builder Azure Exporter Option](../../../../static/img/integrations/azure-exporter/DevPortalIngestCloudProvider.png)

4. Edit and copy the installation command.
   :::tip

>    Here is the place where you can adjust what the exporter will be deployed with: `event_grid_system_topic_name` parameter if you already have one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The installation command includes placeholders that allow you to customize the integration's configuration. For example, you can update the command and specify the `event_grid_system_topic_name` parameter if you already have one.
```

>    - Specify the `event_grid_system_topic_name` parameter if you already have an Event Grid System Topic of type `Microsoft.Resources.Subscriptions` in your subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Specify the `event_grid_system_topic_name` parameter if you already have an Event Grid system topic of type `Microsoft.Resources.Subscriptions` in your subscription;
```

>    - Specify the `event_grid_event_filter_list` parameter if you want to listen to more events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Specify the `event_grid_event_filter_list` parameter if you want to listen to more events;
```

   - Specify the `action_permissions_list` parameter if you want the integration to have more permissions.

>      :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::
```

Reviewer: The admonition broke because the closing tag (`:::`) was too close to the list, need a line separator

     ![Dev Portal Builder Azure Exporter Installation](../../../../static/img/integrations/azure-exporter/DevPortalIngestAzureInstallation.png)
5. Run the command in your terminal to deploy the Azure exporter.

> ## Mapping Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Mapping configuration
```

> You can configure the exporter what to fetch from your Azure subscription by adding / editing the configuration file in the integration page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can update the exporter's configuration in the integration page, you can use the configuration to add or remove Azure resources that will be ingested from your subscription.
```
